# Spell-Checker-Using-SQL
The sql code uses fuzzy logic mathching to find similar words aimed at finding spelling errors. The implementation is based on q-gram logic, which is explained as below.

Given a stringσ, itspositionalq-gramsare obtained by“sliding” a window of lengthqover the characters ofσ. Sinceq-grams at the beginning and the end of the stringcan have fewer thanqcharacters fromσ, we introduce new characters “#” and “%”notinΣ, and conceptuallyextend the stringσby prefixing it withq−1occurrences of “#” and suffixing it withq−1occurrences of “%”.Thus, eachq-gram contains exactlyqcharacters, though some of these may not be from the alphabetΣ.Definition 2:Apositionalq-gramof a stringσis a pair(i, σ[i . . . i+q−1]), whereσ[i . . . i+q−1]is theq-gram ofσthat starts at positioni, counting on the extended string.  The setGσof all positionalq-grams of astringσis the set of all the|σ|+q−1pairs constructed from allq-grams ofσ.The intuition behind the use ofq-grams as a foundation for approximate string processing is that when twostringsσ1andσ2are within a small edit distance of each other, they share a large number ofq-grams in com-mon [6, 4].  Consider the following example.  The positionalq-grams of lengthq=3 for stringjohnsmithare{(1,##j),(2,#jo),(3,joh),(4,ohn),(5,hn),(6,ns),(7,sm),(8,smi),(9,mit),(10,ith),(11,th%),(12,h%%)}.  Similarly, the positionalq-grams of lengthq=3 forjohnasmith,which is at an edit distance of two fromjohnsmith,  are{(1,##j),(2,#jo),(3,joh),(4,ohn),(5,hn),(6,na),(7,a),(8,as),(9,sm),(10,smi),(11,mit),(12,ith),(13,th%),(14,h%%)}.   If we ignore the position information,  the twoq-gram sets have 11q-grams in common.   In-terestingly,  only the first five positionalq-grams of the first string are also positionalq-grams of the secondstring. However, an additional six positionalq-grams in the two strings differ in their position by just two posi-tions each. This illustrates that, in general, the use of positionalq-grams for approximate string processing willinvolve comparing positions of “matching”q-grams within a certain “band.”
